OSSM 3.0 TP1 OSSM-8153 [DOC] OSSM 3.x Concepts (#83560)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ossm-about-concepts-observability.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// about/ossm-about-concepts-assembly.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="ossm-about-concepts-observability_{context}"]
= {SMProductName} and Observability

{SMProductName} integrates with Red Hat Observability components, including:

> OpenShift Monitoring:: Monitoring stack components are deployed by default in every {ocp-product-title} installation and are managed by the Cluster Monitoring Operator (CMO). These components include Prometheus, Alertmanager, Thanos Querier, and others. The CMO also deploys the Telemeter Client, which sends a subset of data from platform Prometheus instances to Red{nbsp}Hat to facilitate Remote Health Monitoring for clusters.

Reviewer: Consistency.
```suggestion
OpenShift Monitoring:: Monitoring stack components are deployed by default in every {ocp-product-title} installation and are managed by the Cluster Monitoring Operator (CMO). These components include Prometheus, Alertmanager, Thanos Querier, and so on. The CMO also deploys the Telemeter Client, which sends a subset of data from platform Prometheus instances to Red{nbsp}Hat to facilitate Remote Health Monitoring for clusters.
```

+
When you have added your application to the mesh, you can monitor the in-cluster health and performance of your applications running on {ocp-product-title} with metrics and customized alerts for CPU and memory usage, network connectivity, and other resource usage.

{DTProductName}:: {SMProductName} uses {DTProductName} to allow developers to view call flows in a microservice application.
+
Integrating {DTProductName} with {SMProductName} is made of up two parts: {TempoName} and {OTELName}.
+

> {TempoName}:: Provides distributed tracing to monitor and troubleshoot transactions in complex distributed systems. It is based on the open source link:https://grafana.com/oss/tempo/[Grafana Tempo] project.

Reviewer: Per [doc guidelines](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#lead-in-link-sentence-style-for-the-link-attribute): When pointing to a link that exists external to Red Hat’s customer portal documentation, add the link attribute, and use the <document_heading_name> (<document_source>) format.

+
For more information about {temposhortname}, its features, installation, and configuration, see: link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.16/html/distributed_tracing/distributed-tracing-platform-tempo[{TempoName}].
+

> {OTELName}:: Is based on the open source link:https://opentelemetry.io/[OpenTelemetry project], which aims to provide unified, standardized, and vendor-neutral telemetry data collection for cloud-native software. {OTELName} product provides support for deploying and managing the OpenTelemetry Collector and simplifying the workload instrumentation.

Reviewer: Per [doc guidelines](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#lead-in-link-sentence-style-for-the-link-attribute): When pointing to a link that exists external to Red Hat’s customer portal documentation, add the link attribute, and use the <document_heading_name> (<document_source>) format.

+

> The link:https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/[OpenTelemetry Collector] can receive, process, and forward telemetry data in multiple formats, making it the ideal component for telemetry processing and interoperability between telemetry systems. The Collector provides a unified solution for collecting and processing metrics, traces, and logs.

Reviewer: Per [doc guidelines](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#lead-in-link-sentence-style-for-the-link-attribute): When pointing to a link that exists external to Red Hat’s customer portal documentation, add the link attribute, and use the <document_heading_name> (<document_source>) format.
